---

title: An Introduction to CSS
layout: default
categories: tutorials

---

CSS is a funny acronym that stands for "cascading style sheets". Don't worry about the cascading part right now, we'll deal with that in a bit. Right now, we want to make our pages pretty—or at least *prettier*.

I've got some good news and bad news for you. The bad news is that CSS is a completely different syntax than HTML. The good news is that it is pretty simple and I think you'll get the hang of it pretty quickly.

Let's say we have a page with the following content:

	<h1>This is a heading</h1>
	<p>This is a paragraph.</p>
	<p>This is another paragraph.</p>
	
I left out all of the boiler plate stuff (e.g. `<html>`, `<head>`, `<body>`, etc.) for the sake of clarity. Let's just make believe I included it. Now, let's get to styling our page.
	
There are two ways to style our page with CSS. The first—and usually, the best—way is to create a file that ends in `.css` and link to it from your HTML file. To do this, you would include the following in the `<head>` section of your HTML file.
	
	<link rel="stylesheet" href="YOUR_FILE_NAME_HERE.css" type="text/css" charset="utf-8">

Don't worry about anything you don't understand in there. The only important part is that `YOUR_FILE_NAME_HERE.css` actually points to whatever you named your file. The other option is to shove all of your CSS between a set of `<style></style>` tags in the `<head>` of your HTML file.

Here is some example CSS:

	p {
		color: red;
	}

This little snipped of CSS syntax tells your browser to go and look for all of the `<p>` tags in your HTML file and change their text color to red. You can include multiple statements inside those curly braces.
	
	h1 {
		color: blue;
		background-color: black;
	}
	
It should be pretty obvious what that does. It looks for all of the `<h1>` tags and it changes the text color to blue and the background color to black.
	
So, what other properties are there?

* If you like to be overwhelmed, you can check out [W3C's full list of CSS properties](http://www.w3.org/TR/CSS2/propidx.html).
* Alternatively, you can check out [this shorter list](http://htmlhelp.com/reference/css/properties.html) from some organization called the Web Design Group.
